██╗  ██╗███████╗███╗   ██╗ ██████╗ ██╗  ██╗███████╗███╗   ██╗██╗███████╗███╗   ███╗
╚██╗██╔╝██╔════╝████╗  ██║██╔═══██╗╚██╗██╔╝██╔════╝████╗  ██║██║██╔════╝████╗ ████║
 ╚███╔╝ █████╗  ██╔██╗ ██║██║   ██║ ╚███╔╝ █████╗  ██╔██╗ ██║██║███████╗██╔████╔██║
 ██╔██╗ ██╔══╝  ██║╚██╗██║██║   ██║ ██╔██╗ ██╔══╝  ██║╚██╗██║██║╚════██║██║╚██╔╝██║
██╔╝ ██╗███████╗██║ ╚████║╚██████╔╝██╔╝ ██╗███████╗██║ ╚████║██║███████║██║ ╚═╝ ██║
╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚═╝  ╚═══╝ ╚═════╝ ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚═╝  ╚═══╝╚═╝╚══════╝╚═╝     ╚═╝
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
XenoXenism is an fork of XenoFeminism. As such it falls under the GPL.
Feel free to fork, translate, and modify it as you see fit. All such forks and translations shall also fall under the GPL, and be made available for free reproduction and modification. 
Please see LICENSE for more details. 
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

As it appears today, despite 2 millenia of attempted global ideological domestication, tribal behaviours have not been forgotten and civilisation is more than ever a subject of discussion. In parallel to the rise of digitalised behavior, we saw financial and humanitarian atrocities trigger the most brutal attacks on critical thought, when all the fruits of democratic society seemed to be at hand. Simultaneously hindered and expanded, undermined and upgraded, humanity was ever since continuously switching states. Now, during this period of transition, it is actualising both states at the same time: being purely itself while being essentially other. At such a scale, the ergonomic studies of today become the logical habits, the psychological limitations of tomorrow, and you will swipe to the right to answer calls for the rest of your existence, whatever else that implies in your life as a global experience. In this world, our behaviors are quantized, and our caretakers, in their eagerness to define us, to model us, display signs of the best intentions in pleasing our natural inclinations. Whether they are natural or not, it is less than certain that the inclinations which are pushed on us effectively promote indiviual development, while claiming to do so. Less and less randomness is made available to us, and its ersatz are very cheap. In this world, where we are encouraged to be ourselves, it is our task to become the other. We can take full advantage of the current state of things by intentionally reconnecting with the few tens of thousands of years' worth of genetic and culturally determined evolution encapsulated in our DNA properties. What is below the borders of the individual is most often perceived as being outside its realm. This is transvaluation of values in action: what we believe to be alien is often entangled in our own identity. What we truly cannot fathom seems absurd, and in the long run, otherness is precisely that which defines us. Xenos (ξένος) means other in Greek, as in stranger, ennemy or guest. Like Pharmakos(φαρμακός), which can mean medication, drug or poison, Xenos may signify several things depending on context, but in Xenoxenism it refers in priority to XenoFeminism's promotion of otherness as empowering social subversion. Xenism, on the other hand, is used to describe untranslatable loanwords, foreign words introduced in a host-language without orthographic alteration or gender-reattribution. By making a discipline of becoming the other, XenoXenism thus proposes an inclusive method of self-regeneration.

<br>

XenoXenism was implemented as the quickest path to otherness, defined in terms of evolutionary psychology. XenoXenism is defined as access to one's own otherness, in the sense of whatever they are determined not to be, rather than whatever they can be. XenoXenism consists in taking into account determinisms active outside the realm of mediated self-conscious experience, accepting the vacuity of certain psychological and cultural habits, casting some away and building the activities of the mind accordingly. Letting another of self override one's intentionality can be called listening to one's genes. Setting aside one's intentional self, and letting one's other selves override it: that is called listening to one's genes.

The mind makes the body resonate by reaching into behavioral banks which might have been very well concealed. XenoXenism is the ultimate realisation that the other is already part of the self, and that any limitation between the two is a ideological artefact. Humans are constantly compelled to express a stable and coherent persona to the world they live in. Priests, guides, leaders and usurpators thus keep repeating the same mantra under various forms: "Be yourself". To the cynical and critical mind, this urge to be oneself is no more than the perpetual enforcing of competitive behavior, which imply the negation of collective well-being. As long as the dominant ideology praises competition, it praises physical warfare and psychological enslavement of the vast majority to the interests of the world's oligarchia.

<br>

Listen to your genes. Do not be yourself. Become other.

<br>

Xenoxenism seeks radical models of otherness and connects them consistently. What is other, from a modern human point of view? History of science shows that the rational basis for experimental procedures has not always been secular. Natural theology is the name given to the rationalisation of religious belief, which some scientists have performed in order to contribute to their ideals. Sorting out science from propaganda is not always easy, and believing that all scientific research is true in itself is a clear trap. Oftentimes, science is as dogmatic as religion, and the links between the two are much more complex than it appears. It still happens nowadays that contemporary scientists create experiments to support unscientific theses. Eloquent examples of these dangerous variations in methodology can be found in Evolutionary Psychology.

Xenoxenism is interested by otherness, which seems best represented at the edge of the common sense definition of humanity. The question should be specified as such: what is outside the scope of human variability? This question brings up a continuum, starting with porto-humans and other hominids, ending up with artificial intelligence and other computer science modélisations of intentionality. Setting this spectrum precisely requires much research and debate, in order for the theological prejudice to be eliminated. Many analytic philosophers, from Paul Feyerabend to Patricia Churchland, have advocated Eliminativism, which means contributing to gradually eliminate inadequate concepts from Folk Psychology. These concepts range from the understanding of daily life through false categories and simplified models of the mind, to the transmission of deceitful conceptions about the human brain. We can illustrate the first case with the example of “Love”: this word covers an incredible diversity of individual and social processes, and it is based on the prescribed model of social re-duplication which is believed to hold society together. Love is neither sex nor eroticism, nor even friendship: this blurry concept subsumes even more elements and obliterates them into the unsuccessful secularisation of religious values into those of democratic society. When we know enough about the real mechanisms which motivate sexual selection and reproductive alliances, Folk Psychology might eventually stop using irrelevant categories such as “love”. Another example of Eliminativism is the inappropriate understanding of what “Memory” is: we tend to imagine something like a container for thoughts and events, as if facts and ideas were simply stored in a part of the brain. Scientists studying the human brain have so far been able to distinguish at least three functionally distinct processes which do not even remotely overlap as it is intuitively assumed: work memory, long term memory, and short term memory. Those processes are located in different brain modules, are implicated in different tasks and they are not systematically inter-wired. When scientific breakthroughs are made, it is very rare they have an immediate echo in Folk Psychology. This contradiction between the state of scientific knowledge and unscientific assumptions used by humans in daily life is not surprising. This gap between common representations and specialised knowledge stems from the industrial nature of consumerist ideology, in which producers have the monopoly on intellectual property and a right to own the means of production: the consumers are the workers.

Folk psychology communicates with science, and gets updated every once in a while. For instance, although Sigmund Freud started working on Psychoanalysis in the first decades of the 20th century, it took Surrealism several decades to make it a common tool among the bourgeoisie. It took even longer for the whole of society to be adapted to this set of beliefs, and the first solid criticisms appeared at the end of the 20th century, with works by Thomas Kuhn and Gilles Deleuze. The world had to wait for the 21st century before these criticisms had a real impact, and Psychoanalysis finally started to be evacuated from folk psychology around the time Neuroscience took over the mainstream media. The gradual disappearance of Psychoanalysis from common sense and folk psychology has not reached completion: it is an excellent example of what is meant by Eliminativism. 

Xenoxenism embraces coding in a peculiar sense. It has long been believed that autism was a mental disorder of some kind, an impairment of the normal faculties of the healthy human being. It appears by now that the variability of neurological machines the human species can attain is rather a benefit, and the digital era is only starting. The aptitudes needed to empathise with computer programs, machines or abstract entities are far off the grid of normal human aptitudes. If the average brain was the norm, humanity would not evolve: it has to be made clear that deviance itself is the norm, under the form of neurodiversity. Using the concept of empathy when it comes to coding is a direct reference to the history of psychology, which has long supposed that people with autistic spectrum disorders were incapable of empathy. If their “theory of mind” is impaired, the way they infer on other people’s thoughts is not conform to the average and thus generates misunderstandings on a social scale, which are thereafter designated as symptoms of abnormality. Relativism has its faults, but as the balance is shifting, it is high time to come to terms with the solemn assumption that whatever the world is, it could be “objective”, “normal”, or even “real”.

Among defenders of a deeper social critique, there are those who agree to reconsider their privileges and those who don’t. The term Feminism is associated with an aspect of this critique which has long been left out of the main concerns of those in power, in our context a certain patriarchal elite. In the history of western philosophy and political activism, a series of figures should be highlighted, although it is by no means a complete history of the awakening of feminism as a realisation of the disproportional distribution of social capital based on the diffenrential valuation and subsequent hierachisation of all the tasks performed by humans. Social customs are slow to adapt to collective realisations, because the latter are generally fought back by those who take advantage of this unequal state of things. 


<h1>-XenoXenism can be compared to Zen Buddhism </h1> in its urge to produce unfiltered behaviour in well-orchestrated contexts. Zen Buddhism does not explain itself as much as it casts derision upon what it perceives as uninsightful. Zen is certainly other, for those who have been molded in a monotheistic society. Buddhism is compatible with other beliefs; Zen, as a specific variety of this mode of thought, distinguishes the power of collectivity to the enslavement of the individual. Mostly, Zen is a non-ideological way of making sense of what seems to be random or senseless. For this reason, from a non-Buddhist point of view, it is a perfect example of otherness, unobtrusive and fatalistic. Moreover, Zen itself has a notion of 'otherness', which borders on the absurd: only the self-conscious mind perceives anything as being other than them. Only those who were unable to get rid of that primitive obstacle, which is self-awareness, believe in otherness. For this reason, becoming other, relatively to Zen, implies reaching a particular stage in life, a unique experience in which we entirely loose track of having ever known of any border, anywhere. These points in life can be seen as insights, and depending on the definition you get of 'satori' you will be more or less willing to aspire to it. But as inspiring as it may get, being a Zen monk doesn't enable you to take full advantage of the current situation in history. The main reason for that is that Zen values hygiene and discipline. Zen masters are known for occasionally indulging in excessive alcool beverages like many famous thinkers of the absurd around the world, such as Rumi or Omar Khayam.

2-It is best thought of as an MVC implementation of Spinozism. MVC stands for the Model/View/Controller pattern used in coding, intertwining three elements, three ontological layers for describing reality of which the first is the model; this stands for content of the program, substance, nature or god. The second is the View layer, which specifies how the Model is expressed in space and time. It can be called the design, or the spirit of the program: it designates the way the content is embodied and actualised. The third layer, the Controller, is the set of methods enabling the interaction between the content and the user, through its design, to take part in the program itself. The Controller includes all the actual programming, as it processes the interaction in the background. As the program creates affections in the user, they can be taken into account. A program interacts directly with the ability of the user to persist in his being. The users also run on a program which they call reality, and the layers would correspond respectively to the content of the user’s neurobiological capacities, the way the user communicates with its surrounding and the methods developed in that goal. The self is based on a series of first-person experiences lived through the same nervous system and implementing its methods in different styles. The selves which compose the self are capable of reaching points of harmony, by appropriate use of design and style. The methods used by the user to interact with a program depend on their most basic functions, the methods through which they process the input from their surrounding. Since there are an infinity of selves, believing in the unity of oneself is an illusion, and thus the question of otherness is exposed as being a social construct, constitutive of the competitive reality the users live through and instrumentaliser into collective hatred and humanity’s worst tendencies for mass-murder. 

A classical example of the MCV model is the association of HTML/CSS/JavaScript. XenoXenism understands the world as a set of three layers: the infinite series of conscious selves experienced by all sentient creatures, the layout or rendering of immediate experience, and the functions at work in the social world. Each of these layers deserves proper description, as their overlapping processes should be understood as functionally differentiated. Two more items will be described: the alienated nature of human experience, and the means by which to reach Otherness, binding determinisms and randomness under the process of ritualization of spontaneity. 

3-Recursivity is a creative expression of critical thought, a pattern for thought to express disdain onto self-conscious thought itself. Folk psychology claims that self-consciousness and self-awareness guarantee the respect of social values, but cautious observation of life mechanisms reveals patterns in the co-existence of events. The only sensible conclusion is that the social patterns are of such magnitude that individuals are truly incapable of acting upon them consciously. All that is left for behavioural guidance is thus a hybrid practical philosophy made of cynicism and skepticism. Skepticism is an ancient philosophical school which claimed that ultimate wisdom, leading to happiness, consists in breaking apart all decision processes into their eventual duality and being able to see them as equally plausible. Their moto, “ou mallon”, can be rendered as “not one rather than the other”. According to Pyrrho, psychological stability, or rather equanimity can only be reached by means of what he called suspension of judgement. The goal of this process could easily be compared to Zen Buddhism, which points out the absence of an actual border between things, thus making the concept of otherness futile. Both of those schools of thought use recursion as a tool to generate absurdity: making sense of openly contradictory claims is beyond logic, the the goal of the process being to strip down the mind from its deceit. Using logic rules beyond logic is ironic and insane, and in that sense deserves to be recognized as the psychological pattern involved in the deployment of all artistic creativity. 

4-Ritualisation of spontaneity
Spontaneity and instinctive behaviours are understood as generators of actualised and contextualised random behaviour, more precisely non-replicable behaviour. Taking  interest in stereotyped reactions and their non-replicability enables one to perceive absurdity as a structuring process for the whole of reality. Originality is as instinctive as failure, and they both highlight the performative nature of social existence. Attempts make us who we are, and as such we can be described as a set of events independent from their consequences. For those who wish to escape this determinism, it is advisable to break apart from infatuated self-awareness and come to terms with the myth of the real world, through the process of ritualised spontaneity. On the one hand, it is always impossible to meet the absolute exactitude hinted at by the intended ritual itself. On the other hand, each micro-variation, each step aside from the ritual itself, as lively and spontaneous as it can be, becomes ritualised as it is produced. This process coerces event types: forgetting becomes omitting and making a mistake becomes making a decision. Events are not only rationalised and coerced by artists, they come across as a spectrum of intensities which reflects the current state of folk psychology. As art , aesthetic values follow, and the other way around simultaneously. The evolution of production tools have made digital creation available to a vast population, which grows everyday. Pure non-mediated experience can occur in any context, with any level of social visibility. A ritualised experience can most easily be reached in loneliness, as it is the state where one is free to determine themselves entirely. At the same time, the more individuals take part in a ritual, the more social value it gains. The more people agree on a particular set of events, the more spontaneity will be ruled out, since the symbolic performative value of the action is far more important than the shell which carries it. If it is rationalised in real time, any behaviour can be mystified and can thus be used as an tool of mystification.

